Add Drum Pad Workshop (#1404)
hackclub/hackclub: workshops/beatmaker/README.md

And if we run our code, it should look like this.

Not so compelling, right? We will now write some CSS, which will style our HTML document and make our drum pad look prettier. Let's do that.

Just before the end of your `<head>` tag, link your CSS file:

```html

<link  rel="stylesheet"  href="style.css"  />

```

Your CSS file should now be linked, and we can start writing our CSS code.

We will start by writing code for our document to change the colors, adding fonts, height, width, and more. We are also going to be using the font Roboto (https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Roboto?query=roboto), to do that at the top of our CSS file, we will import it using the line `@import 'https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Roboto';`

```css

@import  'https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Roboto';

html,

body {

background-color: #fff;

height: 100%;

width: 100%;

display: flex;

flex-direction: column;

justify-content: center;

align-items: center;

overflow: hidden;

font-family: 'Roboto', sans-serif;

}

```

![Preview of HTML with CSS applied, to change the layout](https://cloud-bp7m8g6di.vercel.app/0screencapture-drumpad-emmanuel39hanks-repl-co-2020-11-03-08_35_57.png)

> The major thing you will notice when we run our code this time is that our content has been aligned to the center.

Reviewer: Explain what each line does. This code seems like a lot of copy and paste.

We want to style the header to give it spaces and then create three rows and four columns to correctly align the pads and give them a box or container look. We will do just that.

```css

h1 {

color: #000;

font-size: 5vw;

letter-spacing: 6px;

}

.pad {

width: 500px;

display: flex;

justify-content: space-between;

flex-wrap: wrap;

}

.box {

width: 100px;

height: 100px;

margin: 10px  0;

box-shadow: 0  8px  6px  -6px  black;

background-color: #444;

display: flex;

justify-content: center;

align-items: center;

font-size: 20px;

color: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.4);

user-select: none;

border: 4px solid;

}
```

> If you run your code, nothing has changed. That's because we are using classes to group our HTML elements. Let's go back to our `index.html` and to our `<div>` we will want to add the class name `box` to our nested `div` elements, and the parent header will be given the class name `pad`:

Reviewer: Again here, add in comments on how this works.

And when we rerun our code, it should look like this.

We will write code to make hovering effects, inactive or active states, to make it stand out. and make the experience better. We will do that with the following code

```css
.box {

width: 100px;

height: 100px;

margin: 10px  0;

box-shadow: 0  8px  6px  -6px  black;

background-color: #444;

display: flex;

justify-content: center;

align-items: center;

font-size: 20px;

color: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.4);

user-select: none;

// We will add these two properties to the .box class to add a colored rounded solid border.
border: 4px solid #E5446D; 

border-radius:15px;

}

.box:hover {

background-color: lighten(#444, 10%);

cursor: pointer;

}

.box:active {

background-color: darken(#444, 10%);

transform: scale(1.1);

transition: all  0.2s;

}

.active {

background-color: darken(#444, 10%);

transform: scale(1.1);

transition: all  0.2s;

}

```

![Preview of HTML with our finished layout CSS applied, and our pad borders colored](https://cloud-ms6ubs6qu.vercel.app/0screencapture-drum-emmanuel39hanks-repl-co-2020-11-07-23_20_37.png)

> We are done with our styling and layout.

Reviewer: Yeah you REALLY need to start explaining what code does. Break it down line by line to make sure the reader understands it.

<div  class="box" onclick="play('https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/s.cdpn.io/242518/BD0010.mp3')">J</div>

<div  class="box"  onclick="play('https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/s.cdpn.io/242518/BD0000.mp3')">K</div>

<div  class="box"  onclick="play('https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/s.cdpn.io/242518/CP.mp3')">L</div>

</div>

```

And we have built the Drum Pad successfully.
Try it out by clicking the pads and see the magic!

![Image](https://media.giphy.com/media/11sBLVxNs7v6WA/giphy.gif)
 
## Publishing

Now that you have finished building it, you should share your beautiful creation with other people! Remember, it's as easy as giving them your URL! Don't forget to share it with me on Slack @emmanuel39hanks.

## Resources
  
- HTML Docs (https://www.w3schools.com/html/)
- CSS Docs (https://www.w3schools.com/css/)
- JavaScript Docs (https://www.w3schools.com/js/)
- Audio Object (https://www.w3schools.com/JSREF/dom_obj_audio.asp)
- Onclick event (https://www.w3schools.com/jsref/event_onclick.asp)
- JavaScript functions (https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_functions.asp)

## The End

> Suppose you haven't created an account on [repl.it](https://repl.it), make sure you do so to save this wonderful creation!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure you have created an account on [repl.it](https://repl.it) to save this wonderful creation!
```

If you face any difficulties in signing up, [watch this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mtqp4CUepk0).

Now it is up to you! Do anything with this project, try to implement a way to play the drum pad with the corresponding keys on your keyboard. 

Check out these crazy examples!
To finish, here are some amazing, more customized drum pad machines/beatmakers made by other developers:

> - A code playground on Solo Learn by Andrew Siachos (https://code.sololearn.com/WfYyBdZwc6qn/#html)

Reviewer: You should try creating your own hacks instead of using someone else's.
